# Introduction
Name: Steven Hy
Student Number: S3843132
My name is Steven Hy and my ethnicity is Chinese. Despite being Chinese I grew up surrounded by Vietnamese culture as both my parents grew up in Vietnam and moved to a vietnamese neighbourhood in Australia at home I speak Cantonese with my parents. I am currently both studying and aiming to complete a degree in the Bachelor of IT which I hope can assist me in getting a job. Outside of work and university I like to spend my leisure time playing games such as valorant or any new upcoming titles that interest me. Apart from playing video games I enjoy organising time to spend with my mates, going out for lunch or dinner and just socialising in general.

# It Technologies
Autonomous Vehicles
To first fully understand autonomous vehicles we must first understand the levels of automation in driving. In the J 3016 guidelines established by SAE (Society of automotive engineers), “a global association of more than 128,000 engineers and related technical experts in the aerospace, automotive and commercial-vehicle industries”(1), they have outlined 6 different levels of driving automation.
 As seen here. 
Autonomous driving has been thoroughly explored by SAE and presented in the form of levels, level 0 through to level 5 with each level showing an increase in features and different types of technology implemented, to create a fully automated vehicle, also known as level 5 driving automation which can “drive the vehicle under all conditions”(2).
The current state of the driving automation level is at 2(3), there is a bountiful amount of features that are there to support the driver in their control of the vehicle whilst still requiring the full attention of the driver to take effect. The development of autonomous driving is progressing steadily and is already showing signs of level 3 driving automation(3) such as the ability of cars to self drive themselves in traffic taking control of your steering, brakes, and acceleration. 

Autonomous vehicles with the ability to perform level 3 driving automation may start showing signs of being on the road, cars such as tesla models are already being implemented autopilot with tesla stating that “Autopilot comes standard on every new Tesla”(4) showing that they are already making moves to approach level 3 driving automation but they are yet to confidently be road worthy. More data is required as well as more tests are needed to improve the technology that is required to make the ability for cars to automatically drive themselves on the road. As the current state of vehicle automation that Tesla is performing at as well as many other car companies that are starting to implement the notion of self-driving cars, it can be expected that level 3 driving automation can be achieved rather soon. With the development that we are seeing, further down the road we can expect that these automation driving tests will expand its views on cars and maybe even look to go into different types of vehicles such as trucks, vans, buses, motorcycles and maybe even planes.

The progress of autonomous vehicles is only possible through technologies designed for cars that have been built and improved on over the years. These technologies that were originally developed for car safety, such as “Lane Keeping Assist”(5), “Emergency Braking”(5) or “Blind Spot Detection”(5) contain technology that is and will be used to make self-driving cars possible. Each new technology implements features that assist the driver in steering, braking, accelerating and even decision making, features that are expected of in autonomous vehicles.
The technology of the past is making the capabilities of cars to fully self-drive themselves a possibility. So what is holding them back? Self-driving cars, autonomous vehicles are only possible with a good artificial intelligence(6) that is able to learn and solve real-world problems that are clearly very unpredictable at times. A self-driving software that has very little data will not be able to perform well(6) in many situations that require a less apparent approach, but a software with an AI that has millions of driving footages analysed will be able to react to situations that are complex and correctly act in regards to that specific situation. For self-driving cars, data is what truly completes them.

The impact of autonomous vehicles has the potential to become revolutionary, the results of accomplishing the technology for vehicles to become fully automated can significantly invoke a positive outcome both economically and environmentally. Cars that are able to become self-driving will be able to bring about fewer traffic accidents and congestion, as well as achieve the ability to save energy through their driving efficiency.(7) Autonomous vehicles are able to bring a positive impact on the road but they are still vulnerable to causing negatives outcomes to fields such as employment and even cyber threats.(7) They are very prone to these cyber threats due to the fact that vehicles containing the technology to become automated will contain hardware and software that may be exploited. Employment on the other hand can cause even further damage as more and more drivers struggle to keep their jobs, this impact not only affects jobs such as taxi drivers and ubers, but also trucks, delivery drivers and more that require a driver to be seated. As such, all types of drivers are likely to become the most affected, but drivers that work for a living will feel a more impactful blow into their life. On the other hand people that don’t drive will also feel the influence that autonomous vehicles have, as they might be more inclined to use or buy services or products of self-driving vehicles. As more people buy into this, it will potentially harm urban transport. By 2050, it is estimated that the use of public transportation will fall by 18% and the use of walking or cycling will fall by 13%(8). The self-driving technology will cause a poor return on health benefits, and the diminishing use of public transportation is likely to cause problems for those that are dependent on it if it ever becomes deemed no longer necessary to support.

Autonomous vehicles, self-driving technology, can only ever be a positive experience for me. The impact that this has on me is beneficial to my daily life, as well as my family and friends. Autonomous vehicles have the potential to improve the life of many people as well as improve the structure of society and the way transportation will be done. The impact it has to become an efficient source of transporting passengers, packages, food and many more will simplify the way I live my everyday life. Self-driving cars have the ability to not only be efficient in transportation but to also cause me to become more efficient in time-management as having me drive 1 hour to my location can be replaced with me having 1 hour to complete work. It will become a time-efficient tool as well as an educational benefit to me.


Self-driving vehicles will be able to provide a safer alternative to transportation for my family and the people around me. It is more likely to prevent putting them in situations that are likely to cause accidents. Elderly family members as well as disabled users will have an option of travelling longer distances without relying on others as the cars will be able to drive for them, providing them a convenient and reliable mode of transportation.

Overall, the impact of autonomous vehicles will provide the people around me, including myself, with an improvement in our day to day life, as we can look forward to having a reliable way of getting around in our daily life. The technology of self driving cars will immensely benefit the way I live and travel.
Cite
Sae.org. 2022. [online] Available at: <https://www.sae.org/about/> [Accessed 19 April 2022].
Sae.org. 2022. [online] Available at: <https://www.sae.org/news/2019/01/sae-updates-j3016-automated-driving-graphic/> [Accessed 19 April 2022].
Pollard, T., 2022. What are autonomous car levels? Levels 1 to 5 of driverless vehicle tech explained. [online] CAR Magazine. Available at: <https://www.carmagazine.co.uk/car-news/tech/autonomous-car-levels-different-driverless-technology-levels-explained/> [Accessed 18 April 2022].
Tesla.com. n.d. Autopilot and Full Self-Driving Capability. [online] Available at: <https://www.tesla.com/en_AU/support/autopilot#:~:text=Autopilot%20comes%20standard%20on%20every,and%20Full%20Self%2DDriving%20Capability.> [Accessed 19 April 2022].
NHTSA. 2022. Automated Vehicles for Safety | NHTSA. [online] Available at: <https://www.nhtsa.gov/technology-innovation/automated-vehicles-safety> [Accessed 19 April 2022].
Piper, K., n.d. It’s 2020. Where are our self-driving cars?. [online] Vox. Available at: <https://www.vox.com/future-perfect/2020/2/14/21063487/self-driving-cars-autonomous-vehicles-waymo-cruise-uber> [Accessed 19 April 2022].
Hayes, A., 2022. The Unintended Consequences of Self-Driving Cars. [online] Investopedia. Available at: <https://www.investopedia.com/articles/investing/090215/unintended-consequences-selfdriving-cars.asp#:~:text=The%20prospect%20of%20widespread%20use,efficiency%20and%20reduce%20traffic%20congestion.> [Accessed 19 April 2022].
8.May, A., Shepherd, S., Pfaffenbichler, P. and Emberger, g., 2020. The potential impacts of automated cars on urban transport: An exploratory analysis.

# The life of a web developer
The work of a web developer includes so much more than just designing a website. Web developers design, create, and maintain their websites, while also creating updates and debugging their website. Web developers work with a wide variety of languages such as jQuery, JavaScript, HTML, SAS, CSS, PHP and mySQL, therefore having the capability to work both backend and frontend coding.
Working as a web developer involves solving coding problems and attending meetings. A web developer will spend most of their working hours at their desk working and coding for their company or client but will occasionally also attend meetings that debrief them on their progress and expectations, held by an individual in a leading position, or their boss. These web developers will also be allocated a time to go on breaks, where they can spend their time relaxing, playing sports/video games, eating and hanging out with their co-workers. While most of their work ends up being repetitive and easy to perform, it is likely that they will also struggle on their codes from time to time as they get allocated complicated problems to solve, spending the majority of their working hours solving and figuring out solutions rather than physically inputting codes.
Web developers will over the course of their career run into many problems with their codes taking them hours or even days to solve, creating a challenge in completing it before a certain deadline. Not only does the ability to solve these challenging problems cause difficulties. The feeling of burning out and losing their motivation to continue on their work or project causes a challenging mentality to continue on their work. 
Web developers have a wide variety of skills that they must use to complete their work. They spend time working and coding from their office desk and attending meetings both in-person and online. They spend a lot of time thinking up solutions to their codes creating a challenge mentally for them to overcome. Web development can be a fun and relaxing job but expect there to be times where codes get hard and continuing on can become overbearing.
 
Youtube.com. A Day in the Life of a Web Developer | #devsLife. [online] Available at: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B1WGJoTF5EY> [Accessed 28 April 2022].

Youtube.com. A Day in the Life of a Web Developer. [online] Available at: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SmxrUmaAOz0> [Accessed 28 April 2022].

# Reflection

Steven: The group had a rocky start into the project but ended up being very successful and on top of their work towards the end of the assignment. This group was able to get their allocated work done on time and was able to deliver what was expected of them, allowing progression of the project to smoothly advance. The group was able to freely discuss amongst each other about work both related and not related to the project, showing a close connection between group members. What was most surprising during this assignment was how well some members were able to stay on top of their communication with one another, showing instant replies and responses to each other's questions about the assignment. Despite the great communication, one thing I learnt about group work is how difficult it is for all members to be free at the same time to discuss or hold full meetings as each individual has their own separate life outside of university times, which is the only con about this group as every meeting will consist of a missing member. 

# Website
