# Introduction
I was born in the Philippines and in 2003, our family moved to Australia as dad had many job opportunities as an aircraft mechanic. In my free time I enjoy reading - mostly fantasy and sci-fi but I am also a sucker for horror stories, I also play video games - some competitive games such as Valorant but mostly action-adventure games like Dark Souls. My interest in technology stems from my love of video games. When I was younger, I played a lot of computer games and was interested in how they were made. I eventually found out about software development, and started working my way towards it. Along the way, I became interested in other fields related to technology and I am very excited about what is in store for the future. Apart from this, I was also really good with the home computer, and became the go to for any technical problems my parents had with it.

# Small Computing Devices
Computing devices are functional units that perform computations, including arithmetic operations and logic operations. They can consist of standalone units, or several connected units. They can also be devices that perform a specific set of functions (Editor, n.d.) . The Raspberry Pi, Arduino, and Makey Makeys are all examples of computing devices.

The Raspberry Pi is basically a small computer. It includes a processor, memory, and graphics processor, all contained on a small board. They are low cost, and capable of doing everything a desktop computer can do (Raspberry Pi, 2013). Because of this, they are also known as a Single Board Computer (SBC) (maxEmbedded, 2013). Some notable projects based around the Raspberry Pi include the MagicMirror (Magicmirror.builders, 2016), and RadioGlobe (Pullen J, 2020). The Raspberry Pi has also enabled many people to explore computing and coding by providing hands-on experience to the user. Some alternatives of the Raspberry Pi include the UDOO BOLT - a higher performance board designed for higher end gaming (UDOO, 2021), and the ASUS Tinker Board - a SBC based on ARM CPUs (ASUS Australia, n.d.).

The Arduino is similar to the Raspberry Pi in many ways, but it is much smaller in scale (Arduino, 2018). A Raspberry Pi is essentially a small computer, while the Arduino is a re-programmable chip. Both can be adapted to many purposes. Arduinos are inexpensive, small, and have a simple programming environment. Because it is self-contained on a single chip, they are also known as a Microcontroller Unit (MCU) (au.rs-online.com, n.d.). Some popular projects using the Arduino include a digital temperature sensor (Dimitrov, K. 2016), and a Bluetooth controlled car (Fernando, S. 2018). Arduinos are great for designing devices with singular purposes. Some alternative Microcontrollers include the Adafruit Gemma M0 - an incredibly small board designed for wearable electronics (Adafruit. n.d.), and the NodeMCU - designed for mobile devices and networking applications (www.elecrow.com, n.d.).

Makey Makey is an invention kit designed to turn everyday objects into touch pads. They are an artistic way for people to be creative, inventive, and imaginative (Joylabz Official Makey Makey Store, 2022). Projects can range from creating a banana piano (Joylabz Official Makey Makey Store, n.d.), to interactive puppets (Burker, J. n.d.).

These small computing devices get much more sophisticated and efficient as technology evolves, improving on things such as performance, storage, connectivity, and customisation. Alongside these improvements, these devices can become smaller, faster, and cheaper over time, as the hardware needed for them becomes more efficient (Tardi, 2021).

Commonplace end-user products made from small computing technologies include mobile phones, tablets, laptops, and wearable tech. These products are constantly innovated upon, including concepts such as flexible screens, and modular components, all of which are possible due to the improvements of small computing devices.

As the size of the hardware becomes smaller and smaller, new products such as Neuralink will go into development. These types of products have the potential to help lives, in the case of Neuralink, the developers claim that it will be able to restore full body functionality (Kay, 2022).
Devices such as these that are easy for beginners to use are great for giving practical computing and programming experience to those that are interested, potentially expanding the field and providing people with a way to easily utilise technology. With more people starting and finishing projects with them, the faster that it will grow and be innovated upon. With the growth of these technologies, more specialised end-user products could become available, not only for purchase, but for the users to create for themselves.

These computing devices are ideal for assistive tasks, and could help with tech related processes, such as monitoring moisture levels for plants, or robotic arms that can move with much more precision than human hands. There are also products that provide virtual assistants, such as Amazon Alexa, that can take the place of small service roles such as a cashier. If these devices began to be adapted for larger companies and corporations, they could also create jobs for programmers and engineers specialised in their use. If companies such as Neuralink are successful in their objectives, they could potentially replace, and at the very least assist with, jobs that fail due to human error.

Unfortunately, because of the rapid pace these devices grow and make older iterations redundant, it will create a large amount of electronic waste. If newer versions of the Raspberry Pi are faster, more efficient, cheaper, and smaller, there are practically no reasons to keep the older versions, especially if newer projects specifically require the newer hardware to run. Some hobbyists may be able to make niche case uses for them and will be able to reuse or refurbish them, but for the vast majority of users, the newer iterations will be the most beneficial. There are some initiatives in place for these devices to be reused and refurbished, but eventually they will end up in landfill, which can leave lasting events on the environment (The dark side of electronic waste recycling, 2019).

With researching this topic, I have become interested in the usefulness and practicality of these devices and have thought of some projects that could be useful to me, especially with my hobbies. I am interested in using a Raspberry Pi to host a server for some of the programs I run on my computer, which can free up some resources to use for other things. I could also try building a wall display or MagicMirror somewhere in the house that displayed things that I frequently look at, like the weather, calendar events, and news feeds. These types of things are also an interest to many of my friends, and I'm sure that we could create a lot of useful things with these devices, especially when we get familiarised with them.

Small computing devices have been incredibly useful in my day to day life, the functionality of a mobile phone alone is incredibly useful as it can give me access to a lot of information like public transport timetables, or notify me of things like emails. I also have a tablet which I use for note taking, it is very useful for some of my hobbies, as well as University, and it allows me to cut down on paper usage as I no longer buy things like notebooks. Wearable tech, especially those with wellness services like a smart watch, are incredibly useful as they make fitness tracking easy and actionable. I am excited to see new wearable tech in the future, especially those that have to do with vision such as Microsoft HoloLens.

Overall, small computing devices are a great way to start your own technology projects, as they are incredibly versatile devices that are easy to learn and use. These devices are constantly being improved and the things an individual will be able to do with them will only get better and better.

# Project
### Overview
Everything that we do leaves a lasting impact on earth, this application aims to provide users information about their own impact, and provide tips, alternatives, and practical steps to reduce it. The user would input information that influence their carbon footprint, such as their usage of electricity and water. After they have input their information, the app will show them the potential impacts on the environment of their actions and then provide actions or alternatives that will help reduce their carbon footprint. There are some easy ways to reduce your carbon footprint such as taking shorter showers, or utilising public transport over your car, but there are many other ways that may not be as obvious, such as where your groceries come form. This app will aim to quickly show these alternatives to the user.

### Motivation
Global warming has been a topic of conversation for quite a long time, and to this day, is still a highly debated subject. Despite these debates, there is no denying the negative impact that humans have on the environment. This app is for those that are conscious of their environmental impact, and wish to make a change, but don't necessarily know how to accomplish that. There are services already in use, such as [https://carbonpositiveaustralia.org.au/](https://carbonpositiveaustralia.org.au/), but this project differs in that it aims to give users much more information and alternatives

### Description
The application will require the user to input information about their past month, in order to calculate their carbon footprint as accurately as possible. This information will consists of: water usage, energy usage, travel and transport, food and drink, and waste. Once this information has been entered, the application will report to the user on how each category contributes to their carbon footprint and give them a score based on the projected carbon emissions that an individual should be at. In order to help users properly understand their impact on the environment, the report will also show things such as how much natural habitats would need to be restored to offset their emissions, or how many earths would be needed to properly sustain the population if everybody lived the same way. The report will go into detail of which categories contribute the most of their emissions, showing the user which ones they may want to prioritise on. The application will then begin to show users how to offset their emissions, starting with general tips that help with everything. These tips will come from sources such as the UN (Nations, 2021), and will include things such as switching to energy efficient light bulbs, taking shorter showers, using reusable items, etc. These tips and actions will gradually get more specific to the user, evaluating things such as alternative electricity companies, environmentally friendly groceries, and comparing the fuel economy of their next vehicle purchases. Some of these solutions, such as installing solar panels may also help save the user some money in the long run on top of helping lower their carbon footprint. The user may also indicate some things that are non-negotiable, for example, they may not have any public transport options to get to work so they must use their car, the application will take these things into account and provide alternative ways in other categories to offset those emissions.

The application can also direct users to environmental projects happening around them if they wish to further offset their carbon emissions. If there was for example, a group asking for volunteers to clear litter in an area, or if there were any companies or organisations that focus on sustainability that they could donate to. These actions would also be taken account when calculating a users score and when providing alternative ways to offset their carbon emissions.

We could even partner with environmentally focused companies to provide users with the proper information that could be missed in terms of sustainability. For example, rubbish collection companies can provide ways to properly recycle items without contaminating them, or a cooking application that will show the users how to make the most out of the ingredients they use.

The application will also have an optional 'daily' mode, that will allow users to track their day to day activities. The purposes of this will be to provide much more in depth personal insights and more specific ways to help them reduce their carbon footprint. By using this mode, they may find out, for example, that their energy usage is highest on a particular day and the application can help with reducing it. However, tracking this information may be difficult if it is not readily available, in order to create a good estimate the application could simply do things such as track how long the user uses their car. These estimates can also be extrapolated from their monthly data in order to be more accurate.

### Outcome
By providing users with tips, alternatives, and solutions they can do to lower their carbon footprint, hopefully people will take their environmental impact seriously. If more people actively tried to lower their carbon emissions, it could inspire other people to do the same, and eventually get bigger companies and corporations to do the same. With these improvements, the Earth could be around for a whole lot longer than what is currently being projected.

# Reflection
The Assignment started off fairly chaotic, but we were able to properly get our work done towards the submission date. Everyone was able to complete their tasks, no matter what it was with no fuss. Once we were able to properly meet with each other it was surprising to me that there was a clear connection with each member, which I think allowed us to work with each other more comfortably. We could have definitely improved by breaking up our time more effectively, and doing proper meetings, allocations, and even setting deadlines for work. Since our schedules didn't exactly line up, it was far easier communicating with each other in an informal way, rather than just talking in allocated meetings or in class. Working on this project together, I have learned how effective it is to build a rapport with each other, especially when working on a large project. Using Microsoft Teams was also surprisingly effective, as it allowed us to properly schedule meetings, and even review them if we needed. However, I think using GItHub, especially as a group, was something completely new to everyone, and proved to be more of a struggle than a boon, but in figuring out how to properly use it, I can see how valuable it is as a service.


# References
Adafruit. (n.d.). Adafruit GEMMA M0 - Miniature wearable electronic platform. [online] www.adafruit.com. Available at: https://www.adafruit.com/product/3501 [Accessed 24 April 2022].

Arduino (2018). Arduino - Introduction. [online] Arduino.cc. Available at: https://www.arduino.cc/en/guide/introduction [Accessed 24 April 2022].

ASUS Australia. (n.d.). Tinker Board｜AIoT & Industrial Solution｜ASUS Australia. [online] Available at: https://www.asus.com/au/Networking-IoT-Servers/AIoT-Industrial-Solutions/All-series/Tinker-Board/ [Accessed 24 April 2022].

au.rs-online.com. (n.d.). Everything You Need To Know About Microcontrollers | RS Australia. [online] Available at: https://au.rs-online.com/web/generalDisplay.html?id=ideas-and-advice/microcontrollers-guide [Accessed 24 April 2022].

Burker, J. (n.d.). Puppet Show by Josh Burker. [online] Available at: https://makeymakey.com/blogs/how-to-instructions/puppet-show-by-josh-burker [Accessed 24 April 2022].

Carbon Positive Australia, (n.d.). Calculate | Carbon Positive Australia. [online] Available at: https://carbonpositiveaustralia.org.au/calculate/ [Accessed 29 April 2022].

Dimitrov, K. (2016). DS18B20 (Digital Temperature Sensor) and Arduino. [online] Available at: https://create.arduino.cc/projecthub/TheGadgetBoy/ds18b20-digital-temperature-sensor-and-arduino-9cc806?ref=platform&ref_id=424_popular___&offset=2 [Accessed 24 April 2022].

Fernando, S. (2018). Bluetooth Controlled Car. [online] Available at: https://create.arduino.cc/projecthub/samanfern/bluetooth-controlled-car-d5d9ca?ref=platform&ref_id=424_popular___&offset=3 [Accessed 24 April 2022]].

Joylabz Official Makey Makey Store. (2022). Our Mission to Encourage Young Inventors - Makey Makey. [online] Available at: https://makeymakey.com/pages/mission [Accessed 24 April 2022].

Joylabz Official Makey Makey Store. (n.d.). First Time Set Up! Basic How-to Guide. [online] Available at: https://makeymakey.com/blogs/how-to-instructions/first-time-set-up-basic-how-to-guide [Accessed 24 April 2022].

Kay, G. (2022). Elon Musk says Neuralink’s brain chip will be ‘similar in complexity level to smart watches’. [online] Business Insider. Available at: https://www.businessinsider.com/elon-musk-neuralink-brain-chip-similar-complexity-smartwatch-2022-4 [Accessed 27 April 2022].

Nations, U. (2021). Facts and Figures. [online] United Nations. Available at: https://www.un.org/en/actnow/facts-and-figures [Accessed 29 April 2022].

Pullen, J. (2020). RadioGlobe - Spin & Search over 2000 Radio Stations | Open Source. [online] Available at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AYu34vMpHRk [Accessed 24 April 2022].

Tardi, C. (2021). Moore’s Law. [online] Investopedia. Available at: https://www.investopedia.com/terms/m/mooreslaw.asp [Accessed 24 April 2022].

The dark side of electronic waste recycling. (2019). YouTube. Available at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vufLW4xOsS4 [Accessed 24 April 2022].

UDOO. (2021). UDOO BOLT: Raising the Maker World to the Next Level. [online] Available at: https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/udoo/udoo-bolt-raising-the-maker-world-to-the-next-leve [Accessed 24 April 2022].

www.elecrow.com. (n.d.). NodeMCU V2 ESP8266 Development Board. [online] Available at: https://www.elecrow.com/nodemcu-v2-esp8266-development-board-p-1583.html [Accessed 24 April 2022].
